Policy as Code for Python (#3597)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/python-for-pac/index.md

---
title: "Policy as Code with Python"
date: 2020-06-16

> meta_desc: "Policy as Code for Python available as a preview in the 2.0 release."

Author: I think it's better to announce it's GA

meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - sophia-parafina
tags:
    - "Python"
    - "Policy as Code"
---

With the launch of Pulumi 2.0, we introduced the preview of Python Policy as Code. Policies written in code let you test, automate deployment, and enable version control. Python is a popular scripting language used for machine learning and artificial intelligence, data science, web development and devops. It's an ideal language for developers and operators to use in common.

<!--more-->

Devops benefits greatly from policy as code because policies can use software development practices and verify resources without deployments that are costly in time and money. Organizations can also gain significant benefits through cost savings, fine-grained control over infrastructure, efficient deployments, improved compliance, and better use of cloud provider native resources.

## How Policy as Code Works

Policies enforce specific criteria for a resource or for a set of resources (stacks)). For example, a common policy is to ensure that storage is not publicly accessible over the Internet or to ensure that virtual machines must have a firewall.

Pulumi supports two types of polices:

> - **ResourceValidationPolicy** validates individual resources in a stack and is run during preview.

Author: Yes, I've included an edited version

    enforcement_level=EnforcementLevel.MANDATORY,
    policies=[
        storage_container_no_public_read,
    ],
)
```

{{% /choosable %}}
{{% choosable cloud gcp %}}

```python
from pulumi_policy import (
    EnforcementLevel,
    PolicyPack,
    ReportViolation,
    ResourceValidationArgs,
    ResourceValidationPolicy,
)

def storage_bucket_no_public_read_validator(args: ResourceValidationArgs, report_violation: ReportViolation):
    if args.resource_type == "gcp:storage/bucketACL:BucketACL" and "predefinedAcl" in args.props:
        acl = args.props["predefinedAcl"]
        if acl == "public-read" or acl == "public-read-write":
            report_violation("Storage buckets acl cannot be set to public-read or public-read-write.")

storage_bucket_no_public_read = ResourceValidationPolicy(
    name="storage-bucket-no-public-read",
    description="Prohibits setting the publicRead or publicReadWrite permission on GCP Storage buckets.",
    validate=storage_bucket_no_public_read_validator,
)

PolicyPack(
    name="gcp-python",
    enforcement_level=EnforcementLevel.MANDATORY,
    policies=[
        storage_bucket_no_public_read,
    ],
)
```

{{% /choosable %}}
{{< /chooser >}}

> In the case of this Kubernetes policy example, the policy does not allow deploying a loadbalancer which would open the kubernetes cluster to the public Internet.

Reviewer: Ah, doesn't look like there's a way to use "k8s" or "kubernetes" with `{{< chooser cloud "aws,azure,gcp" >}}`. @cnunciato, is that by-design?

Reviewer 2: @justinvp Totally an oversight! You should be able to make this work by adding a few lines to `chooser.tsx`:

```diff
 --- a/components/src/components/chooser/chooser.tsx
+++ b/components/src/components/chooser/chooser.tsx
@@ -6,7 +6,7 @@ import { setLanguage, setK8sLanguage, setOS, setCloud } from "../../store/action
 export type LanguageKey = "javascript" | "typescript" | "python" | "go" | "csharp" | "fsharp" | "visualbasic"
 export type K8sLanguageKey = "typescript" | "yaml" | "typescript-kx"
 export type OSKey = "macos" | "linux" | "windows"
-export type CloudKey = "aws" | "azure" | "gcp"
+export type CloudKey = "aws" | "azure" | "gcp" | "kubernetes";

 export type ChooserMode = "local" | "global";
 export type ChooserOptionStyle = "tabbed" | "none";
@@ -408,5 +408,10 @@ export class Chooser {
             name: "GCP",
             preview: false,
         },
+        {
+            key: "kubernetes",
+            name: "Kubernetes",
+            preview: false,
+        },
     ];
 }```

Author: added k8s to chooser

```python
from pulumi_policy import (
    EnforcementLevel,
    PolicyPack,
    ReportViolation,
    ResourceValidationArgs,
    ResourceValidationPolicy,
)

def no_public_services_validator(args: ResourceValidationArgs, report_violation: ReportViolation):
    if args.resource_type == "kubernetes:core/v1:Service" and "spec" in args.props:
        spec = args.props["spec"]
        if "type" in spec and spec["type"] == "LoadBalancer":
            report_violation(
                "Kubernetes Services cannot be of type LoadBalancer, which are exposed to " +
                "anything that can reach the Kubernetes cluster. This likely including the " +
                "public Internet.")

no_public_services = ResourceValidationPolicy(
    name="no-public-services",
    description="Kubernetes Services should be cluster-private.",
    validate=no_public_services_validator,
)

PolicyPack(
    name="kubernetes-python",
    enforcement_level=EnforcementLevel.MANDATORY,
    policies=[
        no_public_services,
    ],
)
```

> ## Summary

Reviewer: Should we add a couple sentences about how to run such a policy pack locally, before the summary? Something like:

> If you'd like to try out one of the examples above, you can create a policy with `pulumi policy new` and to run locally against a Pulumi program specify `pulumi up --policy-pack <path-to-policy-pack>`?

Also wondering if we should mention that you can enforce policy packs in your organization by publishing the policy pack (running `pulumi policy publish [org-name]` inside the policy pack dir). That's what's new in GA, the ability to publish and enforce. Though, that's limited to customers that have support for this enabled in the Pulumi Console. So I could also see leaving it off.

Author: I'll add the suggestion to try out the policy but leave out publishing in an org

Policy as Code is an important tool for building secure and efficient cloud infrastructure. Pulumi lets you efficiently test resources before deployment and entire stacks when deployed. Learn more about what you can do with Policy as Code:

> - [Get Started with Policy as Code]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/crossguard">}})

Reviewer: Nit:

```suggestion
- [Get Started with Policy as Code]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/crossguard" >}})
```

<!--more-->

Devops benefits greatly from policy as code because policies can use software development practices and verify resources without deployments that are costly in time and money. Organizations can also gain significant benefits through cost savings, fine-grained control over infrastructure, efficient deployments, improved compliance, and better use of cloud provider native resources.

## How Policy as Code Works

Policies enforce specific criteria for a resource or a set of resources (stacks). For example, a common policy is to ensure that storage is not publicly accessible over the Internet or that virtual machines must have a firewall. Policies are enforced as either *advisory*, which prints a warning message the resource violates the policy; or
*mandatory*, which prevents a resource deployment if it violates the policy.

Pulumi supports two types of policies:

> - **ResourceValidationPolicy** validates individual resources in a stack and is run during preview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ResourceValidationPolicy** validates inputs of individual resources in a stack before the resource is created or modified.
```

> - **StackValidationPolicy** validates the stack as a whole and runs when the stack is deployed because some resources may need to exists to validate inputs or outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **StackValidationPolicy** validates outputs of all resources in the stack after all resources have been created or modified.
```

> ResourceValidationPolicy and StackValidationPolicy both run during previews and updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ResourceValidationPolicy and StackValidationPolicy validations run during previews and updates. During previews, resources aren't created or modified, so the ResourceValidationPolicy and StackValidationPolicy validations see a preview of what's going to happen (as best we can determine).
```

> 
> ResourceValidationPolicy validates inputs of individual resources before the resource is created or modified. StackValidationPolicy validates outputs of all resources in the stack after all resources have been created or modified. During previews, resources aren't created or modified, so the ResourceValidationPolicy and StackValidationPolicy validations see a preview of what's going to happen (as best we can determine)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> With stack validation policies, the validation happens after resources have been created or modified. Modifications to resources can't be prevented, but using mandatory enforcement results in a deployment failing (despite the modified resources). If you run Pulumi preview before an update and use a mandatory StackValidationPolicy, you can catch the problems before a real deployment occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With stack validation policies, the validation happens after resources have been created or modified. Modifications to resources can't be prevented, but using mandatory enforcement results in a deployment failing (despite the modified resources). If you run `pulumi preview` before an update and use a mandatory StackValidationPolicy, you can catch the problems before a real deployment occurs.
```

| What does it check?            | Individual resources                  | All resources in the stack                                                           |
| When is the check performed?   | Before resources are created/modified | After all stack resources have been created/modified                                 |
| What information is available? | Resource _input_ properties           | Resource _output_ properties (Note: inputs are propagated to outputs during preview) |

Now that we have the basics of policy as code let's take a look at example policies written in Python.

## Examples

Policies are validation functions that validate resources in a Pulumi stack. In the examples below, we define a function that takes `ResourceValidationArgs` and `ReportViolation` as arguments. The function checks to see what type of resource and its arguments, these are used to determine if the resource violates the policy. If the resource is not compliant, the function reports the violation, and because the enforcement level is *mandatory*, the resource will not be deployed.

> In the case of this Kubernetes policy example, the policy does not allow deploying a load balancer, which would open the kubernetes cluster to the public Internet.

Reviewer: Is this sentence needed now that k8s is in the chooser? None of the other clouds have similar sentences.

```suggestion
```
